KVM, Kernel-based Virtual Machine, is a hypervisor built into the Linux kernel.
Unlike native QEMU, which uses emulation, KVM is a special operating mode of
QEMU that uses CPU extensions (Hardware-assisted virtualization) for
virtualization via a kernel module. 

QEMU is a generic and open source machine emulator and virtualizer. When used
as a machine emulator, QEMU can run OSes and programs made for one machine
(e.g. an ARM board) on a different machine (e.g. your x86 PC). By using dynamic
translation, it achieves very good performance. 

Libvirt is a collection of software that provides a convenient way to manage
virtual machines and other virtualization functionality, such as storage and
network interface management. These software pieces include a long term stable
C API, a daemon (libvirtd), and a command line utility (virsh). A primary goal
of libvirt is to provide a single way to manage multiple different
virtualization providers/hypervisors, such as the KVM/QEMU, Xen, LXC, OpenVZ or
VirtualBox hypervisors (among others). 

lscpu | grep Virtualization # check for virtualization support (VT-x for Intel
processors and AMD-V for AMD processors)

lsmod | grep kvm # check that kvm modules are loaded.

Para-virtualization allows virtual machines (guests) to communicate quickly and
efficiently with devices on the host machine. KVM uses para-virtualization by
offering virtual machines special devices through the Virtio API, which acts as
a bridge between the hypervisor (software that creates and runs virtual
machines) and the guest. Each Virtio device consists of two parts: a host
device and a guest driver. The host device is on the physical machine, and the
guest driver is in the virtual machine.

Load the following modules via modprobe ('modprobe -a' to load multiple):
network device (virtio-net)
block device (virtio-blk)
controller device (virtio-scsi)
serial device (virtio-serial)
balloon device (virtio-balloon)

modprobe -r module_name # unload module

ls -l /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/drivers/ # view drivers

/lib/modules/ is a directory on a Linux system that contains kernel modules.
Kernel modules are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the
kernel as needed, without requiring a reboot. They extend the functionality of
the kernel, typically to add support for new hardware or filesystems.

files in /etc/modules-load.d/ (i.e. my-modules.conf) contain module names to be
loaded automatically at boot time. Whereas /etc/modprobe.d/ configures module
options, aliases, and blacklists..

vmlinuz is the name of the compressed Linux kernel executable used for booting
the operating system. The name vmlinuz stands for "Virtual Memory LINUx gZip"
because it is a compressed kernel image that is used to start the Linux
operating system.

After updating the kernel or installing new modules, running depmod ensures
that the new module dependencies are correctly identified and recorded. This is
especially important when new modules are added or existing ones are updated.

modprobe MODULE # where module can be typed out as virtio-net or virtio_net
