Some Key Benefits of Redhat:
-Monitored updates and patches that have gone through a thorough testing
procedure
-Different levels of support and help, depending on which type of subscription you have purchased
-A certified operating system that is guaranteed to run and to be supported on specific hardware models
-A certified platform for running enterprise applications such as SAP 
middleware, Oracle Database, and many more
-Access to the Red Hat Customer Portal at https://access.redhat.com, where
you can find much detailed documentation that is available to customers only

Red Hat is involved in two free alternatives also: -CentOS Stream & -Fedora
Apart from these, there are also two community initiatives to provide free
alternatives to RHEL, which contain the same software but without the Red Hat
branding: -Rocky Linux & -AlmaLinux 

AlmaLinux and Rocky Linux are community distributions that provide the same
software as in RHEL, but without any license restrictions or support.These
distributions are independently developed and in no way supervised by Red Hat.
If you want to use a 100 percent compatible alternative for RHEL without being
bound by any license conditions, both AlmaLinux and Rocky Linux are good
alternatives.

In RHEL you need to set up Subscription Manager to get access to repos.
RHEL's minimum reqs. are 1 GiB RAM, 10 GiB Hard Disk space, & a network
card.

KDUMP: Kernel that creates a Core Dump, essentially a file that contains a
detailed snapshot of the memory of the crashed kernel, including the state of
processes, kernel modules, and other relevant information at the time of the
crash, if anything goes wrong.

To perform the tasks that need to be performed on the RHCSA exam, some
easy-to-use graphical tools are available, so it does make sense to install a
server with a graphical user interface (GUI), even if you would never do this
in a production environment.

In RHEL, file systems are configured with the default XFS file system.

"Upstream" refers to the original source or primary repository where the main
development of a project takes place. For the Linux kernel, the upstream source
is the official Linux kernel repository maintained by Linus Torvalds and other
core maintainers.

"Downstream" refers to the distributions or projects that use the upstream
software as a base but may modify it for specific purposes. In the context of
Linux, downstream refers to Linux distributions (distros) like Ubuntu, Fedora,
Debian, and others, which take the upstream Linux kernel and customize it for
their user base.

Downstream projects regularly sync with the upstream project to get the latest
updates and improvements. However, they may also maintain their own set of
patches or changes that are specific to their distribution. If a downstream
project creates a useful feature or fix, they might submit it back to the
upstream project for consideration, ensuring that it benefits the broader
community.
