/run is the default location where temporary files are created. Notice that
these can also be created in the /tmp directory, but within /run a directory
structure is created to ensure each process has its own environment that is not
accessible by other processes, and that makes /run more secure. Further, the
/var directory is used on Linux to store (log) files that may grow
unexpectedly.

The df -hT command shows mounted devices and the amount of disk space
currently in use on these devices and FS type.

The cp -a|--archive command in Unix-like operating systems is used to copy
files (including hidden ones) and directories while preserving their attributes
and ensuring an exact replication. The -a option implies recursive copying
(-r), which means it will copy all contents of directories, including
subdirectories and their contents.

/srv: May be used for data by services like NFS, FTP, and HTTP.
/sys: Used as an interface to different hardware devices that are managed by 
the Linux kernel and associated processes.

Mounting devices makes it possible to organize the Linux file system in a
flexible way. There are several disadvantages to storing all files in just one
file system, which gives several good reasons to work with multiple mounts:

-High activity in one area may fill up the entire file system, which will
negatively impact services running on the server. 

-If all files are on the same device, it is difficult to secure access and
distinguish between different areas of the file system with different security
needs. By mounting a separate file system, you can add mount options to meet
specific security needs. 

-If a one-device file system is completely filled, it may be difficult to make
additional storage space available.

/boot: This directory is often mounted on a separate device because it requires
essential information your computer needs to boot. Because the root directory
(/) is often on a Logical Volume Manager (LVM) logical volume, from which Linux
cannot boot by default, the kernel and associated files need to be stored
separately on a dedicated /boot device. /boot/EFI: If a system uses Extensible
Firmware Interface (EFI) for booting, a dedicated mount is required, giving
access to all files required in the earliest stage of the boot procedure.

/var: This directory is often on a dedicated device because it grows in a
dynamic and uncontrolled way (for example, because of the log files that are
written to /var/log). By putting it on a dedicated device, you can ensure that
it will not fill up all storage on your server.  

/home: This directory often is on a dedicated device for security reasons. By
putting it on a dedicated device, you can mount it with specific options, such
as noexec and nodev, to enhance the security of the server. When you are
reinstalling the operating system, it is an advantage to have home directories
in a separate file system.  The home directories can then survive the system
reinstall.  

/usr: This directory contains operating system files only, to which normal
users normally do not need any write access. Putting this directory on a
dedicated device allows administrators to configure it as a read-only mount.

The mount command gives an overview of all mounted devices. To get this
information, the /proc/mounts file is read, where the kernel keeps information
about all current mounts. It shows kernel interfaces also

findmnt shows mounts & the existing relationship between them. Has better
output format.

tmpfs devices are kernel devices that are used to create a temporary file
system in RAM.

ls -d: shows name of dir, not contents
ls -R: recursively descends all subdirs.

Linux stores administrative data about files in inodes. The inode is used to
store all administrative data about files. Every file on Linux has an inode,
and in the inode, important information about the file is stored: 1)The data
block where the file contents are stored. 2)The creation, access, and
modification date 3)Permissions 4)File owners

Just one important piece of information is not stored in the inode: the name of
the file. Names are stored in the directory, and each filename knows which
inode it has to address to access further file information. It is interesting
to know that an inode does not know which name it has; it just knows how many
names are associated with the inode. These names are referred to as hard links.
So every file always has one hard link to start with, which is the name of the
file.

When you create a file, you give it a name. Basically, this name is a hard
link. On a Linux file system, multiple hard links can be created to a file.
This is useful if a file with the same contents needs to be available at
multiple locations, and you need an easy solution to keep the contents the
same. If a change is applied to any one of the hard links, it will show in all
other hard links as well, as all hard links point to the same data blocks. Some
restrictions apply to hard links, though: 

-Hard links must exist all on the same device (partition, logical volume, etc).
-You cannot create hard links to directories.  
-When the last name (hard link) to a file is removed, access to the file’s data
is also removed.

A symbolic link (also referred to as a soft link) does not link directly to the
inode but to the name of the file. This makes symbolic links much more
flexible, but it also has some disadvantages. The advantage of symbolic links
is that they can link to files on other devices, as well as on directories. The
major disadvantage is that when the original file is removed, the symbolic link
becomes invalid and does not work any longer.  Unlike symbolic links, if the
first hard link is removed, that does not impact the other hard links that
still exist. Hard links share the same inode, symbolic links don't.

Running `\CMD` will not trigger an alias but instead an actual cmd in path.
Also, to remove a sym link to a dir do `rm DIR_LINK`. Running `rm -r DIR_LINK`
will instead remove files inside the dir linked to

tar -cvf dir.tar dir # create tar archive
tar -rvf dir.tar myfile # add file to tar archive
tar -uvf dir.tar dir # update tar archive (write newer version to archive)
tar -tvf dir.tar dir # list files in tar archive
tar -xvf dir.tar # extract tar archive to CURRENT dir
tar -xvf dir.tar -c TARGET # extract tar archive to TARGET dir
tar -xvf dir.tar ./myfile # extract myfile from tar archive
tar -cvf dir.tar -C dir . # cd to dir before creating tar archive

use bunzip2, xz, gunzip commands for compression, or use the compression
feature they have in tar: -z for gzip, -J for xz, -j for bzip2
No need to use these options when extracting, only when creating.
`gzip archive.tar` will produce `archive.tar.gz`. Use -d to decompress
